Will come back in this video we're going to look at least comprehension in the last video we looked
at how to split a string by a certain character so we could split for example one comma to comma three
into three separate strings.
Let's do that again.
Just refresh our memory.
Let's see the user gives us his lottery choices like so it would be with an input but you get the idea
and then the user numbers would be user input don't split.
And then we are squeezing on the comma which means the array or the list is going to be 1 2 3 4 5 and
6 or separately and let's just verify that that is the case.
And so it is.
So we've called the string one string to and so on until the strings 6.
So what we want to do now is convert all these strings to numbers so that we can then do mathematical
operations with them for example and calculate winnings or things like that.
So want to do.
The way we have learned doing these things is create an empty list which is used numbers as int and
then do it for loop.
So for a number in user numbers and this is going to iterate over these string numbers for each of these
numbers we're going to say user numbers underscore us and don't append.
And this is a method we've not looked at yet but essentially what that does is it just adds another
element to a list that is going to add an element to this empty list in name and the VAP Well that's
going to do is add to this list the number converted to an integer.
So now use the numbers as Inde contains these numbers.
So this is the way we would do it with the for loop that we've studied before.
However there's actually a simpler way and list comprehension is fantastic because it's so concise and
yet very readable and it's not something that other programming languages really tend to have.
So let's look at exactly how we would do this using a list comprehension.
We would first of all open a square bracket and then say number four number in use on those phone numbers
.
So when I press enter what is going to come out is just the same thing as user numbers.
So read carefully this list comprehension.
And let's think about what is happening for number in numbers we've seen this sort of construct before
.
We've seen that contract up here in the fall.
And what that did is it created the variable number that equated to the first element and then when
it went and repeated itself equated to the second element and then the third element and so on so that
is used for iteration over a list.
So this is the control we see here as well.
So what does this number do.
Well the construct is used for iteration.
So the assumption is that number then becomes the variable that was assigned here.
And what is doing it is just saying I'm going to put in this list number where number is.
Each element in use are numbers.
So let me give you another example.
Number times too.
And notice these are strings for number in use numbers.
So what do you think is going to happen when we do this.
Remember number is a string.
So the multiplication here is not going to be arithmetic multiplication.
Well our presenter and what we get is number times two for each of the elements in user numbers where
each of the elements is called number.
So essentially multiply each of the elements by 2 and create a list with those elements.
So now your challenge use a list comprehension to convert all the numbers to integers.
Pause the video and give it a few goes if you need and then come back and we'll do it here.
OK.
So the way I would do it is end number four number in use numbers.
It's that simple.
Just remember that number is each of the variables in that original list.
And we want to use it but convert it to an integer and we're going to create our list with that number
converted to an integer for each of the elements in that list.
So when we do that we get that numbers.
So this is how a list comprehension works and we'll go also into using something called set comprehension
and set comprehension list comprehension are nearly identical.
The only thing that changes is the square brackets.
So don't worry if I mention the set comprehension later on or list comprehension.
They are both nearly identical but I will cover in detail the differences in a coming video.
OK so this is how you do list comprehension.
Remember for each of the numbers or for each of the elements in the list you can do something with that
element.
You can convert it to an integer you can multiply it you can add to something else you can do pretty
much anything you want.
And all in one line and it's very concise.
And you're generating a new list from that statement.
Knowing that miscomprehension is a fantastic tool and it's very useful and very used in Python.
So get acquainted with it and get to know it well because you will find many uses for it throughout
your programming.
Without said I see you in the next video